Grapevine disease – The genetic heritage of flavescence dorée deciphered
Agroscope's research will soon make it possible to find weak points in the fight against this pathogen, which until now has been practically impossible to combat.
Grapevine diseaseThe genetic heritage of flavescence dorée deciphered Agroscope's research will soon make it possible to find weak points in the fight against this pathogen, which until now has been practically impossible to combat. Agroscope researchers have succeeded in deciphering the genetic heritage of flavescence dorée. This vine disease is caused by phytoplasmas, bacteria without a cell wall, we learned in a press release on Thursday. To be able to eradicate it, one must understand how the pathogen spreads and what happens to the affected plant. The deciphering of his genetic heritage was therefore important. Unlike other phytoplasmas, the genetic structure of flavescence dorée is stable. This discovery is essential, notes Agroscope: the weak points also behave in a stable way and it is therefore easier to find them and use them to eliminate the pathogen. In a next step, Agroscope will study the function of genes revealed by genome sequencing. This will help understand how the pathogen bypasses a plant's defenses and makes it sick. In addition, the researchers will analyze whether these weak points are found in all strains present in Switzerland. Since 2004 in Switzerland Flavescence dorée appeared for the first time in 2004 in Ticino. Since then, it has been detected in the cantons of Vaud, Valais and Grisons. Two weeks ago, a new outbreak of the disease was discovered in Valais, in Fully. The cantonal government has called on winegrowers to carefully check their plots and to immediately report any questionable vines. This disease inevitably leads to the death of the affected vines, which must be removed and destroyed. There is no curative treatment. If infection occurs, steps are taken to control the species of leafhopper that is spreading the disease. Alternatives to the use of insecticides are sought. The susceptibility of the vine to flavescence dorée as well as to other yellows is highly variable. Sensitive grape varieties include Chardonnay, Sauvignon Blanc, Pinot Blanc, Isabella, Cabernet Sauvignon, Gamaret, Pinot Noir, Muscat, Doral, Gamay, Cabernet Franc and Garanoir. Merlot and Syrah are more tolerant. TTY Found an error? Please let us know.

