The Buhaira Gardens will host a space for biological and preventive control of pests in orange trees
The project budget reaches 35,000 euros and proposes the planting of ground cover meadows that deal with the bacterium that causes the death of the tree
The Buhaira Gardens is the space chosen by the City Council of Seville, through the Ecological Transition Delegation and in the context of the Life Citrus program of the European Union, to promote a space for biological and preventive control for the health of citrus trees of the city, mostly orange trees , and the prevention of pests through natural means that respect the environment and the users of this park open to the public. Life for Citrus is part of the Environment and Climate Action Program (LIFE) of the European Union (EU) that promotes the prevention of threats to these tree species such as HBL (Huanglongbing), a bacterium transmitted by insects that causes the progressive death of specimens due to defoliation and dryness, which has caused serious consequences throughout the world. The initiative that is launched in the Buhaira Park for the comprehensive management of pests proposes the planting of ground cover meadows in the streets of an orange orchard that encourages pollinating insects and other auxiliary species against those that can transmit this bacterium, whose presence has already been detected in some cities in Spain after causing serious problems throughout the world. This strategy is environmentally friendly through resilient plant materials and meets all the requirements related to public health and respect for biodiversity. Planning minimizes the need to resort to pesticides, reduces the carbon footprint and the effects of climate change. Development of preventive work against pests in orange trees For the development, a work schedule has been established that starts from the analysis of the existing tree specimens and the preparation of the surface with tillage that reaches at least 30 centimeters of excavation with the aim of eliminating the compaction of the surface, the possible existence of adventitia and the generation of a soft and loose substrate for seed germination with the contribution of all the necessary elements, as is the case with plant substrates and the like. Subsequently, alignments will be completed with the necessary specimens, an irrigation system will be installed and the ground cover meadows described will be planted. For this, the favorable climatic conditions of autumn will be taken advantage of with the necessary contributions of rolling and water supply that favor rooting based on rainfall. In addition, all maintenance tasks such as weeding or mowing will be carried out and compatible bushes will be planted to house auxiliary arthropods as well as an insect hotel and nest boxes for local bird species to complete the ecosystem. This proposal also contains an informative aspect through the installation of explanatory panels that contain QR codes with information on the nature of the project as well as visits monitored by disseminators who define all the strategies and elements that it contemplates. The budget of this proposal reaches 35,000 euros . The Ecological Transition delegate, David Guevara, recalled that this activity is part of a broader context that the European Union has programmed through a budget of 3.2 million euros aimed at the health of the orange trees that Seville has as epicenter and that includes other lines of work such as congresses with the participation of public and private professionals committed to the health of trees. "Citrus trees and the orange tree in particular are part of the green heritage, culture and history of the city. These prevention tasks anticipate solutions to the problems that have been identified in other cities in Europe and Spain and show the municipal commitment with the environment and with these specimens", he stressed, recalling that the city is home to 45,000 specimens in total , which represents 25 percent of the trees on public roads. Comment 0 Comments more comments

