Map registers 50 pesticides; half are biological | MT North newspaper
Among the novelties is an alternative for the management of resistant populations of whitefly, which is also approved for use in organic agriculture.
Advisory / MDA Act No. 38 of the Department of Plant Health and Agricultural Inputs of the Department of Agricultural Defense, published this Tuesday (30) in the Federal Official Gazette, brings the record of 50 formulated crop protection products, that is, products that will effectively be available for use by farmers. Of these, 25 are biological products, nine of which are approved for use in organic agriculture. With the registration of these products today, there are already 69 low-toxicity products registered in 2022. Low-impact products are important for agriculture not only for toxicological and environmental aspects, but also for benefiting crops with insufficient phytosanitary support, since these products are target pest approved and can be recommended on any crop. Among the novelties of biological products, the fungus Cordyceps javanica , an alternative for the management of resistant populations of whitefly, won its first registration in the Mapa, with its use also approved for organic agriculture. Entomopathogenic fungi are among the most important natural enemies of whiteflies and penetrate directly into the insect, without the need for ingestion. Another biological controller, the nematode Heterorhabditis bacteriophora, which had only one product on the market , now Spodoptera frugiperda and Scaptocoris castanea. Spodoptera has recently been considered a priority pest for agriculture. received authorization for use in a caterpillar control product received authorization for use in a caterpillar control product Also for Spodoptera frugiperda , there is the first record of the entomopathogenic nematode Steinernema carpocapsae, which in addition to controlling the Spodoptera caterpillar is also indicated for the control of fungus flies (Bradysia matogrossensis) and the sugarcane weevil ( Sphenophorus levis). For organic agriculture, nine products were offered, including the parasitoid Tetrastichus howardi, the parasitoid wasp Telenomus podisi and the fungi Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae, increasing the range of options for the farmer.

