ALARM OF EASTERN FRUIT MOSCOW, COUNCILOR CAPUTO: REGIONAL PLANT HEALTH CRISIS UNIT UNIT TO FACE THE EMERGENCY
NAPLES - “We have gathered the phytosanitary crisis unit at the headquarters of the Department of Agriculture of the Region to inform the members of the phytosanitary emergency status caused by the presence of the Bactrocera dorsalis insect (Eastern fruit fly). The convening of the UoC was necessary due to the recent findings in some traps used for the monitoring network [...]
NAPLES - “We have gathered the phytosanitary crisis unit at the headquarters of the Department of Agriculture of the Region to inform the members of the phytosanitary emergency status caused by the presence of the Bactrocera dorsalis insect (Eastern fruit fly). The convening of the UdC was necessary due to the recent findings in some traps used for the monitoring network in a limited area of Campania (territory of Palma Campania). This was announced by Nicola Caputo Councilor for Agriculture of the Campania Region The organism is not dangerous for human health, - explains Nicola Caputo - but particularly harmful for the fruit and vegetable sector as it is able to attack a large number of fruits of income crops. The attention of the Campania Region is maximum since a possible settlement of the insect could strongly influence the movement of the host fruits of the insect. Pursuant to EU legislation, we have notified the European Commission of the discovery, as a kind of transit. We have also put in place various containment measures such as the collection and destruction at - 80 C of the fruits fallen to the ground or in the process of veraison from the sites where they were found in the adult B. dorsalis traps, phytosanitary treatments in the same sites ; Bait application in places at risk, intensification of the monitoring network, control of the soil under the plants where there have been findings in traps in order to search for other vital forms of the insect. In these hours we are evaluating, with the specific National Working Group and with the National Phytosanitary Committee, the opportunity to update the Emergency Plan and the related Action Plan and to agree on timely actions aimed at preventing the establishment of the harmful organism. . Measures involving the installation of traps activated with methileugenol capable of intercepting the insect and at the same time eliminating the parasite in question. Further synergies will be developed with the municipal administration of Palma Campania (regarding technical and organizational support as well as correct information to citizens and farmers) and with the remaining institutions participating in the table, which will be updated as soon as there is further useful information. to the management of the emergency case. The Regional Councilorship for Agriculture - concludes Councilor Nicola Caputo - will ensure all the necessary technical support as well as correct information on the state of the emergency for citizens and farmers ".

