Associated bacteria of a pine sawyer beetle confer resistance to entomopathogenic fungi via fungal growth inhibition - PubMed
This study highlights the role of insect-associated bacteria in the interaction between pest insects and entomopathogenic fungi, which should be taken into consideration when developing microbial-based pest control strategies. Associated bacteria of a pine sawyer beetle confer resistance to entomopathogenic fungi via fungal growth inhibition PMID: 36085246 DOI: 10.1186/s40793-022-00443-z Associated bacteria of a pine sawyer beetle confer resistance to entomopathogenic fungi via fungal growth inhibition Abstract Background: The entomopathogenic Beauveria bassiana is a popular fungus used to control the Japanese pine sawyer, Monochamus alternatus Hope, the key vector of pine wood nematode (Bursaphelenchus xylophilus) that is the causal agent of pine wilt disease, resulting in devastating losses of pines in China and Portugal. However, recent studies have demonstrated that some insect-associated bacteria might decrease fungal toxicity and further undermine its biological control efficacy against M. alternatus. Thus, it is of great significance to uncover whether and how associated bacteria of M. alternatus become involved in the infection process of B. bassiana. Results: Here, we show that axenic M. alternatus larvae died significantly faster than non-axenic larvae infected by four increasing concentrations of B. bassiana spores (Log-rank test, P < 0.001). The infection of B. bassiana significantly changed the richness and structure of the beetle-associated bacterial community both on the cuticle and in the guts of M. alternatus; meanwhile, the abundance of Pseudomonas and Serratia bacteria were significantly enriched as shown by qPCR. Furthermore, these two bacteria genera showed a strong inhibitory activity against B. bassiana (One-way ANOVA, P < 0.001) by reducing the fungal conidial germination and growth rather than regulating host immunity. Conclusions: This study highlights the role of insect-associated bacteria in the interaction between pest insects and entomopathogenic fungi, which should be taken into consideration when developing microbial-based pest control strategies. Keywords: Associated bacteria; Beauveria bassiana; Inhibition; Monochamus alternatus. 2022. The Author(s). References Fu DY, Hu SJ, Hui Y, Haack RA, Zhou PY. Pine wilt disease in Yunnan, China: evidence of non-local pine sawyer Monochamus alternatus (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) populations revealed by mitochondrial DNA. Insect Sci. 2010;17(5):439–47. Tóth Á. Bursaphelenchus xylophilus, the pinewood nematode: its significance and a historical review. Acta Biol Szeged. 2011;55(2):213–7. Ning T, Fang LY, Tang J, Sun JH. Advances in research on Bursaphelenchus xylophilus and its key vector Monochamus spp. Chin Bull Entomol. 2004;41:97–104 ((in Chinese)). Grant support 
