Eastern Moscow in Campania is alarming: it destroys fruit crops
Eastern Moscow in the Campania Region is alarming: it can destroy fruit crops. Reunited the crisis unit
It is an eastern fly alert in Campania. The tephritid Bactrocera dorsalis (Hendel), better known as the fruit fly, has in fact been identified in an area of the Region and could cause more than damage to crops. This is why a crisis unit has been activated and measures are being considered to be implemented to prevent its establishment. Eastern Moscow in Campania, what it is The insect, native to tropical Asia, was found in two orchards in the provinces of Naples and Salerno. Morphologically, B. dorsalis is similar to the common olive fly Bactrocera oleae although the adult measures approximately twice as large (8 mm) as the olive fly (4-5 mm). Both species have a black scutum and a yellowish scutel while in B. dorsalis alone, yellow bands called vitte are clearly visible on the sides of the pronotum and a characteristic “T” shaped spot on the back of the abdomen. The damage, typical of fruit flies, is caused by the larvae that develop in a gregarious way in the attacked fruits, feeding on the mesocarp and causing the decay of the tissues and / or the early drop. The biotic potential of B. dorsalis is very high: at 30 C the cycle from egg to adult can last only 9 days and a female can produce up to 3000 eggs , often laid in small groups in ripe fruit, piercing the epidermis thanks to the ovipositor. of substitution, typical of the tephritids. According to what has been reported in the literature, B. dorsalis is an extremely polyphagous Diptera, being able to attack the fruits of over 470 host plants. In addition to the typical guests of the area of origin, there are tree and herbaceous crops commonly present in our territory: Citrus sp., Malus sp., Prunus sp., Diospyros sp., Vitis sp., Pyrus sp., Various solanaceae (in particular tomato) and cucurbits (including watermelon, cucumber and pumpkin). At the moment the insect is widely spread in over 65 countries between Asia, Africa, Oceania and the Pacific islands; the report in Campania represents the first in Europe and in the Mediterranean basin. The species could have arrived in Campania through the passive diffusion of infested plant material coming from the countries where the insect is present. In countries where it is already widespread, some populations of the oriental fruit fly have adapted to climates very similar to the Mediterranean one, fearing, therefore, its acclimatization also in our territories. The note of the Region As explained in a press release by Nicola Caputo , Councilor for Agriculture of the Campania Region, a crisis unit was brought together. “ We have gathered the phytosanitary crisis unit at the headquarters of the Department of Agriculture of the Region to inform the members of the phytosanitary emergency status caused by the presence of the Bactrocera dorsalis insect (Eastern fruit fly). The convening of the UdC was necessary due to the recent findings in some traps used for the monitoring network in a limited area of Campania (territory of Palma Campania). The organism is not dangerous for human health, but particularly harmful for the fruit and vegetable sector as it is able to attack a large number of fruits of income crops . The attention of the Campania Region is maximum since a possible settlement of the insect could strongly influence the movement of the host fruits of the insect. Pursuant to EU legislation, we have notified the European Commission of the discovery, as a kind of transit. We have also put in place various containment measures such as the collection and destruction at - 80 C of the fruits fallen to the ground or in the process of veraison from the sites where they were found in the adult B. dorsalis traps, phytosanitary treatments in the same sites ; Bait application in places at risk, intensification of the monitoring network, control of the soil under the plants where there have been findings in traps in order to search for other vital forms of the insect. In these hours we are evaluating, with the specific National Working Group and with the National Phytosanitary Committee, the opportunity to update the Emergency Plan and the related Action Plan and to agree on timely actions aimed at preventing the establishment of the harmful organism. . Measures involving the installation of traps activated with methileugenol capable of intercepting the insect and at the same time eliminating the parasite in question. Further synergies will be developed with the municipal administration of Palma Campania (regarding technical and organizational support as well as correct information to citizens and farmers) and with the remaining institutions participating in the table, which will be updated as soon as there is further useful information. to the management of the emergency case. The Regional Councilorship for Agriculture - concludes Councilor Nicola Caputo - will ensure all the necessary technical support as well as correct information on the state of the emergency for citizens and farmers ".

