Balearic Islands exposes its management of the plague of &#39;Xylella fastidiosa&#39; to a delegation of technicians from Corsica
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of the Balearic Government received a delegation from the island of Corsica on Tuesday to present the management of the 'Xylella fastidiosa' plague carried out in the archipelago.
The delegation of Plant Health technicians from the Corsican Administration has been interested in the pest containment policy applied in the Balearic Islands. The visit will last three days and in two of them farms will be visited, some of them with experimental projects. Corsica thus returns a visit that the Balearic Islands made in October 2019. The Minister of Agriculture, Mae de la Concha, has defended that the Balearic Islands have "a very advanced level of research" in this matter, with experimental fields, search for more resistant species and fight against the vector to "coexist" with this bacterium. De la Concha also recalled that aid has been launched that will allow the planting of almost 15,000 almond trees this year, to compensate for the number of trees that have had to be uprooted to prevent the spread of the plague. The bacterium was detected in the Balearic Islands in October 2016. So far, 1,360 positive plants have been detected in 37 different host species from a sample of 18,016 plants. The positives have been detected in Mallorca, Menorca and Ibiza; Formentera is the only island, at the moment, free of 'Xylella fastidiosa'. During these years, research projects have been launched on the most affected crop varieties in the Balearic Islands and their resistance to bacteria, the types of transmitting insects, and the subspecies of bacteria present in the Islands -'multiplex', 'fastidiosa' and 'pauca', the latter present only in Ibiza-. The budget allocated annually to combat 'Xylella' in the Balearic Islands is around 1.3 million euros, in addition to successive research and investigation projects on the subject. Some of these projects and strategies have been financed with funds from the Sustainable Tourism Tax. In addition, 2.3 million have been earmarked for the first aid of the dried fruit restructuring plan, to plant almonds and carob trees. With this first aid, 20 new hectares of almond trees will be planted, one of the crops most affected by this bacterium, which will mean 14,862 trees. The head of the Balearic Islands Agriculture Service, Andreu Juan, also participated in the reception for the Corsican delegation. Comments

