Eastern fruit fly, the Campania crisis unit meets
The convocation was necessary due to the recent findings in some traps used for the monitoring network in the territory of Palma Campania
Eastern fruit fly, the Campania crisis unit meets The convocation was necessary due to the recent findings in some traps used for the monitoring network in the territory of Palma Campania "We have gathered the phytosanitary crisis unit at the headquarters of the Department of Agriculture of the Region to inform the members of the phytosanitary emergency status caused by the presence of the Bactrocera dorsalis insect (Eastern fruit fly). it is made necessary in the face of recent findings in some traps used for the monitoring network in a limited area of Campania (territory of Palma Campania) ". This is what is announced by Nicola Caputo, Councilor for Agriculture of the Campania Region. "The organism is not dangerous for human health - explains the commissioner Caputo in a note - but particularly harmful for the fruit and vegetable sector as it is capable of attacking a large number of fruit from income crops. Campania Region is maximum because a possible settlement of the insect could strongly influence the movement of the fruit host of the insect. In accordance with EU legislation we have notified the European Commission of the discovery, as a species of transit. We have also put in place various containment measures such as the collection and destruction at - 80 C of the fruits fallen to the ground or in the process of veraison from the sites where they were found in the adult B. dorsalis traps, phytosanitary treatments in the same sites; Bait application in places a risk, intensification of the monitoring network, control of the soil under the plants where there have been findings in traps at the nor to search for other vital forms of the insect ". "In these hours - continues the commissioner - we are evaluating, with the specific national working group and with the National Phytosanitary Committee, the opportunity to update the emergency plan and the related action plan and agree timely actions aimed at preventing the establishment of the harmful organism. Measures involving the installation of traps activated with methileugenol capable of intercepting the insect and at the same time eliminating the parasite in question ". "Further synergies - underlines Caputo - will be developed with the municipal administration of Palma Campania (as regards the technical and organizational support as well as the correct information to citizens and farmers) and with the remaining institutions participating in the table, which will be updated as soon as there will be further information useful for the management of the emergency case ". "The Regional Department of Agriculture - concludes Caputo - will ensure all the necessary technical support as well as correct information on the state of the emergency for citizens and farmers".

