Balearic Islands exposes its containment plan against Xylella
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of the Balearic Islands received a delegation of Plant Health technicians from the Administration of Corsica, in...
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of the Balearic Islands received a delegation of Plant Health technicians from the Administration of Corsica, interested in learning about the management of the containment strategy against Xylella fastidiosa . The visit lasted three days, during which the farms where the Autonomous Government carried out experimental projects were visited. So far, in the Balearic Islands, 1,360 plants have been detected with the bacterium in 37 different species from a sample of 18,016 plants. Formentera is the only island, at the moment, free of this pathogen. The Balearic Minister of Agriculture, Mae de la Concha, and the head of the Agriculture Service, Andreu Juan, received the technicians from the French island. “This delegation returns the visit we made to them in October 2019, where the very advanced level of research that we have in the Balearic Islands in this matter was evident,” explained de la Concha. "They want to know everything we have done here, with experimental fields, in the search for more resistant species, in the fight against the vector, among others, to coexist with the bacteria that we have, unfortunately, installed in the Balearic Islands, and that It should not prevent agriculture from being able to continue”, added the minister, who recalled that aid has been put in place to alleviate the uprooting of trees that has occurred in the Balearic Islands and that will allow the planting of almost 15,000 almond trees this year. Since the detection of the bacterium in the Balearic Islands, in October 2016, research projects have been launched on the varietal resistance of the most affected crops in the Balearic Islands, the types of vector insects, the characterization of the bacteria and the subspecies present in the Islands: multiplex , fastidiosa and pauca (present only in Ibiza). The budget allocated annually to Xylella from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food amounts to 1.3 million euros, in addition to the successive research and investigation projects. Thus, 1.05 million euros have been allocated to 'Design and implementation of control strategies against Xylella fastidiosa ', financed with funds from the Sustainable Tourism Tax (ITS), and made up of six different research lots; 150,000 euros to a project of the National Institute for Agricultural and Food Research and Technology (INIA); 240,000 to a recent European project to be developed in coordination with the Institute for Sustainable Agriculture (IAS-CSIC); or the first aid of the dried fruit restructuring plan, of 2.3 million euros, for the planting and replanting of almond and carob trees. With this first aid, 20 new hectares of almond trees will be planted, one of the crops most affected by this bacterium, which will mean 14,862 trees.

