Xylella, recognized as a disaster, among the Ionian municipalities also Manduria, Avetrana Sava, Maruggio, Torricella and others
Three billion euros available
Recognized the state of natural disaster in Lecce, Brindisi and Taranto, but the advance of the disease in the province of Bari with the new outbreak in Polignano a Mare and the 18 infected olive trees found in the undamaged area requires a more effective containment strategy and the identification of new resources to deal with damage to the olive-growing heritage, to work and to tourism that has reached almost 3 billion euros. This is what Coldiretti Puglia affirms, with the recognition by the Ministry of Agriculture of the state of calamity from January to December 2021 caused by Xylella fastidiosa for the entire provinces of Lecce and Brindisi and for the municipalities of the province of Taranto Avetrana, Carosino, Faggiano, Fragagnano, Lizzano, Manduria, Maruggio, Monteiasi, Pulsano, Roccaforzata, San Marzano di San Giuseppe, Sava, Torricella. The spread of Xylella Fastidiosa - pauca strain, the Apulian one - could cause a negative economic impact of up to 20 billion on Italian and European olive growing, according to the study by the prestigious American journal PNAS (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America ) while the bioeconomic model, which did not even consider the value of the cultural heritage of centuries-old olive trees, estimated that the replanting of olive groves with resistant varieties - adds Coldiretti Puglia - could contain the impact in 1.6 billion, while the reduction of spread rate of the bacterium and the disease could prevent damage of up to 1.3 billion. Meanwhile, of the 10 diseased plants following the ninth monitoring update, two infected olive trees found in Polignano a Mare are part of a new outbreak more than 250 meters from the buffer zone, as well as 1 infected olive tree in the countryside of Castellana Grotte which falls into the area. bearing but just 5 meters away from the free zone. Of the 172 infected plants identified with the 2022 monitoring - insists Coldiretti Puglia - 81 fall into the containment area, 73 in the buffer zone and 18 in the undamaged area. Moreover, in the entire province of Brindisi - reports Coldiretti Puglia - the continuous advance of Xylella fastidiosa, with the increasingly numerous presence of olive groves with evident desiccation characteristic of the infection due to the bacterium, has caused serious consequences in the southern part of the provincial territory also on the production and a decrease in extra virgin olive oil which in these areas reaches up to 50% compared to previous years. Due to Xylella fastidiosa, 3 out of 4 olives were lost in the province of Lecce, where the production collapsed - concludes Coldiretti Puglia. has become incontrovertible from 2014 to today. Leave a comment The email address will not be published.

