For the first time, the brown rust virus “hit” tomato crops For for the first time in Arcadia the brown wrinkle virus was detected in tomato fruits. The Directorate of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Medicine of the P.E. immediately made an announcement. Arcadia. According to the announcement, the virus was detected in outdoor tomato crops in the area of Levidi. Except tomatoesthe virus also affects plants pepper. It is mainly transmitted mechanically by contact between plants due to cultivation operations such as weeding or fruit collection, as the worker may carry an infected load (plant, seed). Clothing, tools and crates are hotbeds that can carry and transfer the virus to healthy plants, while soil can also carry infected debris capable of multiplying within six months. Special attention is needed in greenhouses, where the virus can be on the surface of various structures and from there be transferred to the plants. At hydroponic crops there is a risk of the virus entering the water system and from there being transmitted to cultivated plants. Contaminated pollen it can be transferred from plant to plant due to pollinators, while weeds such as stypnus, datula, goosefoot, but also ornamental plants, such as petunia, are places where the brown rust virus grows. Symptoms Symptoms vary depending on variety, plant condition and environmental conditions. In tomato crops infected plants have leaves showing chlorosis, mosaic, curling, lamina distortion and occasionally narrowing. The fruits of the plant show yellow-brown rings, brown areas, wrinkling, deformations and uneven ripening, while the plants show reduced flowering and fruit set. Similar symptoms are seen in pepper foliage, with the fruits of the plants showing distortions, uneven color with brown and green streaks. Meters There are no curative measures for the treatment of tomato brown wrinkle virus (ToBRFV). In order to limit its spread, the following are proposed by the Ministry of Agricultural Development and Food and the Benakeio Phytopathological Institute crop prevention and hygiene measures: Use of healthy seeds and seedlings, which must necessarily be accompanied by a phytosanitary passport. Intermittent control of plants and removal of those showing symptoms of infection. Frequent disinfection of tools by immersion in a 0.5% NaOCl or Virkon S bleach solution or skimmed milk (at least 3.5% protein content) for at least 15 minutes. Use of disposable shoes, coveralls and gloves by workers performing the various cultivation tasks and changing them between different facilities. Avoiding contact of healthy plants with hands that have been in contact with sick plants (uprooting, tying, pruning, etc.). Existence of carpets with disinfectant at the entrance of the greenhouses. Good washing with disinfectant of all surfaces, trays, etc., inside the greenhouses between transplants / plantings. Use clean or disinfected plastic crates when harvesting the fruit and avoid using them in different facilities. Removal and destruction of all crop residues at the end of the growing season as well as disinfection of the greenhouse areas. Destruction of weeds in the areas around the greenhouse or at a distance of 30 meters around the outdoor crops. Crop rotation for a period of 6 to 12 months with plants that are not affected by the virus, e.g. plants of the gourd family (Cucurbitaceae). Due to the extreme danger posed by the virus to tomato and pepper crops, attention is drawn to producers to observe the above measures. For more information or in case of suspicious symptoms, contact the Directorate of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Medicine P.E. Arcadia. Tags: time brown rust virus hit tomato crops Related news : 
