Cancellation of support for oriental fruit flies About 2 months, no confirmation
From May 2021 to July 2022, Ishigaki City's urban area was intermittently confirmed to be a quarantine pest "citrus fruit fly". Director Isao Hirata and others held a press conference at the Yaeyama Prefecture Yaeyama Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Promotion Center on the 16th, thanking the relevant organizations and citizens for their cooperation in implementing measures to control oriental fruit flies. The oriental fruit fly is...
Cancellation of support for oriental fruit flies About 2 months, no confirmation From May 2021 to July 2022, Ishigaki City's city area was intermittently confirmed to be a quarantine pest "citrus fruit fly". Director Isao Hirata held a press conference at the Yaeyama Prefecture Yaeyama Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Promotion Center on the 16th and thanked the relevant organizations and citizens for their cooperation in implementing countermeasures against oriental fruit flies. The oriental fruit fly was eradicated in the prefecture in 1986, but fruit flies that are believed to have reintroduced from Taiwan, the Philippines, etc. have been confirmed since then. In May 2015, traps for kidnapping fruit flies were confirmed in urban areas, and in June of the same year, parasites were confirmed on fruits of private houses. Traps were set up at 45 locations on the island, and 20 were caught last year, and 4 this year. More than 2,700 kilograms of fruits, including citrus fruits and mangoes that were grown by private households, were removed. According to the prefectural agriculture, forestry and fisheries department, there have been no reports of damage to fruits produced by farmers. Relevant organizations worked together to exterminate fruit flies, and citizens were requested to understand and cooperate with the control work, such as removing unnecessary fruit from home gardens and installing trigger boards. Response measures are implemented based on the Okinawa Regional Quarantine Guidelines for the species cluster of oriental fruit fly. The decision to lift the restrictions was made in consultation with the government, as no trap surveys or parasitic plant surveys have been found for nearly two months since the last parasitic fruit was confirmed on July 14th. The prefectural agriculture, forestry and fisheries department took the countermeasures for more than a year. There was fruit throughout the year without any trouble. General Manager Morimitsu Sakihara commented, "Given the geographical characteristics, there is a possibility that the oriental fruit fly will re-invade in the future, so we need to continue to be vigilant."

