A possible way to make Cavendish bananas resistant to the TR4 fungus A team of researchers from Wageningen University, working with colleagues from several institutions in Colombia, has found a possible way to make Cavendish bananas resistant to the TR4 fungus. This is stated in their research published in the open access PLANE ONEthe group exposed Cavendish banana plants to a different fungus and found that it made them resistant to TR4. Until the 1920s, most bananas available worldwide were of the Gros Michel variety. But the fusarium strain a fungus called TR1 began destroying banana crops on plantations. Undeterred, the plantation owners switched to another variety of banana called Cavendish – it was resistant to the TR1 fungus, but less tasty. More recently, another strain of the Fusarium fungus, called TR4, has begun to destroy Cavendish bananas grown in modern plantations. The fungus proved fatal, leaving many plantations barren. It is also easily transmitted, quickly transferred from one person to another plantation to the next one. In response, scientists sought both a replacement cultivar and a treatment for Cavendish plants that would protect them from TR4. In this new attempt, the researchers considered the latter option. The team members noted that previous research has shown that some plants become temporarily immune to certain types of fungus when they are exposed to another type of fungus — which they can naturally get rid of. In this case, they wondered whether the Cavendish effect of TR1 would confer protection against TR4. To find out, they dug up some plant samples and dipped them in a solution containing the TR1 fungus. After drying them, they exposed the plants to TR4 spores at different time intervals. They found that this approach worked—plants exposed to TR1 showed significant resistance to TR4 for up to 10 days. The researchers could not explain why the exposure made the plants more resistant, noting that plants they don’t have the kind of immune cells that remember pathogens, but they’re optimistic that improving their technique could prove useful in the fight against TR4. Additional information: Fernando A. García-Bastidas et al. Induced banana resistance to Fusarium wilt caused by Tropical Race 4 in Cavendish cv Grand Naine bananas after infection with avirulent Fusarium species,

