Golden flavescence in the vineyards, the first case in the Burgraviato
The yellow ones continue to spread. The Bassa Atesina is particularly affected: in Salorno almost all the controlled areas have symptomatic vines; in one vineyard the percentage of diseased plants has even reached 19 percent - the whole vineyard must be eradicated from 20 percent. .
Golden flavescence in the vineyards, the first case in the Burgraviato The yellow lights continue to spread. The Bassa Atesina is particularly affected: in Salorno almost all the controlled areas have symptomatic vines; in one vineyard the percentage of diseased plants has even reached 19 percent - the whole vineyard must be eradicated from 20 percent. And, for the first time, a case of flavescence dorée was also detected in the Burgraviato. “The spread of flavescence dorée is a serious concern. We will only be able to overcome the challenges associated with this situation by relying on research and adequate advice ”, states the provincial councilor for agriculture Arnold Schuler. Since mid-August, on behalf of the Consorzio Vini Alto Adige, a team of specially trained employees has been visiting vineyards throughout South Tyrol and, in particular, the Chardonnay and Pinot Grigio vineyards and the plants of all the varieties harvested. planted two and three years ago, to mark symptomatic vines with a yellow-black tape. "This year we are concentrating equally on all the cultivation areas of South Tyrol, so as to ascertain the spread and plan the necessary interventions", explains Hansjörg Hafner, head of the Viticulture sector at the Consultancy Center for fruit growing in the 'South Tyrol. Throughout the province, the Phytosanitary Service and the Consultancy Center for Fruit Growing in South Tyrol collect specimens of leaves to be sent to the Laimburg Research Center for laboratory analysis. To the naked eye, in fact, the Flavescence dorée, scientific name of the flavescence dorée, is indistinguishable from the black wood disease. “This year, in the laboratory, we are mainly examining leaf samples from areas and vineyards that, in the past, have never been hit or only lightly hit. This also contributes to monitoring dissemination. The suspicion of flavescence dorée was confirmed in more than 15 percent of the samples examined in the laboratory ”, underlines Raffael Peer, project manager at the Consultancy Center for Fruit Growing in South Tyrol. Flavescence dorèe - Golden Flavescence Flavescence dorée is a non-curable disease of the grapevine spread all over the world. In the white varieties the leaves take on a yellowish color, while in the red varieties the color changes to reddish. The leaves then roll down from the edge and take on a triangular shape. The sprout remains green and does not turn into wood, the berries die. The first suspected case in South Tyrol was registered in 2016; since then the number of infestations has been steadily increasing and the disease of the vines is spreading from south to north. The pathogen of flavescence dorée is the cell-wall-free bacterium Flavescence dorèe-Phytoplasma (FDp). The main vector is the American vine leafhopper, a variety of vine cicada introduced in Europe about seventy years ago that spends its entire life cycle on the vine, transmitting the disease from branch to branch and from vineyard to vineyard, thus causing the occurrence of real epidemic outbreaks.

