An electronic platform to prevent Xylella Researchers from the University of Bari and the Cnr, in collaboration with Agritest s.r.l., have created an electronic biosensor to find infected plants, quickly and accurately revealing the presence of a single Xylella fastidiosa bacterium directly in the field. The result, published in Advanced Science, would allow savings in monitoring and improve the effectiveness of containment actions Electronic biosensors to detect even a single Xylella fastidiosa bacterium quickly, before the effects are visible, thus allowing more effective interventions. This is the objective of a study carried out by researchers of the Institute for the Sustainable Protection of Plants (Cnr-Ipsp) and of the Institute of Photonics and Nanotechnology (Cnr-Ifn) of the National Research Council, in collaboration with the Departments of Chemistry, Pharmacy-Drug Sciences and Physics of the University of Bari, and with the contribution of Agritest S.r.l. The results of the research have been published in Advanced Science, a prestigious international journal with a very high Impact Factor (16.8). “The ultrasensitive detection of Xylella fastidiosa has so far made use of molecular detection tests, which use the DNA of the bacterium itself as a target. These analyses, however, require the use of laboratory infrastructures, together with analysis times of at least 3 hours. The innovative electronic platform proposed by the team of researchers from Bari would instead allow the detection of a single bacterium in just 30 minutes directly in the field", explains Luisa Torsi, full professor of analytical chemistry at the University of Bari and vice-president of the Scientific Council of the CNR , who coordinated the research. “At the moment, the early detection of the bacterium and the containment measures implemented in the regional territories seem to have slowed down the spread of the bacterium. We need rapid and reliable tools to diagnose and intervene early trying to stop the disease, for which no cures capable of healing infected plants have so far been found", continues Donato Boscia, head of the Bari branch of the Institute for the Sustainable Protection of Plants (Cnr-Ipsp), and among the pioneers in the fight against Xylella fastidiosa in Puglia. The obtained result has great relevance for the early detection of plant pathogenic organisms and for the implementation of preventive measures. "For example, biosensors based on single-molecule transistor (SiMoT) technology have the concrete prospect of being used for diagnostics in the field of plant pest diseases", says Eleonora Macchia, researcher in the Department of Pharmacy-Drug Sciences of the 'University of Bari, winner of an ERC Starting Grant. "The main limitations of 'classical' laboratory methods concern the need to resort to specialized personnel and the use of complex instruments", conclude Luisa Torsi and Gaetano Scamarcio, full professor at the Interuniversity Department of Physics of the University of Bari and associate of the Cnr-Ifn section of Bari. "It is evident how such a robust platform allows for an accurate, fast and ultra-sensitive analysis, thus representing a very powerful tool against the spread of Xylella fastidiosa". 
