Xylella | in Polignano a Mare and Martina Franca the highest number of new infections Coldiretti Puglia | monitoring | 42 more infected trees
Below is a statement released by Coldiretti Puglia: The killer bacterium "eats" another 42 olive trees, bringing the plants infected with Xylella fastidiosa to 214, ... Xylella: the highest number of new infections in Polignano a Mare and Martina Franca Coldiretti Puglia: monitoring, 42 other infected trees
(On Thursday 6 October 2022)Below is a press release issued by
Xylellafastidiosa at 214, while the worrying non-stop advance in an unscathed area continues with
other6 sick olive trees in
Polignano. This is what
Coldiretti
Puglia claims, based on 10 monitoringwith laboratory analyzes that have confirmed the disease on 9 olive trees in Fasano, 14 in
Martina
Francaand 2 in Locorotondo, all in the containment area, while 17 olive trees are infected with Xylellaa
Polignano, of which 11 in the buffer zone and 6 in the free area. To try to reverse the course,
Coldirettiand Unaprol are engaged in ...Read about us news
Xylella: new outbreak in Polignano a Mare - calamity 2021 for Salento and Taranto Advanced in the Bari areaXylella advances in the Bari area up to in Castellana Grotte and Polignano a Mare. Coldiretti: "We need a new strategy"Xylella: other infected plants in Alberobello - Fasano - Martina Franca - Monopoli and Polignano a Mare Coldiretti Puglia
Xylella advances in the Bari area, sen. Damiani (FI): "Immediately the question on the national tables"
Olive trees also infected in Polignanoa Mare and Castellana Grotte. xylella continues its advance also in the Bari area, destroying a naturalistic, economic and even cultural heritage in Puglia. Since 2014 in the ...
Barletta: Xylella advances in the Bari area, sen. Damiani: Immediately the question on the national tables
Olive trees also infected in
Polignanoa Mare and Castellana Grotte. xylella continues its advance also in the Bari area, destroying a naturalistic, economic and even cultural heritage in Puglia. Since 2014 in ...
Xylella, a new outbreak in the Bari area: 18 infected olive trees in Polignano La Gazzetta del MezzogiornoXylella still extends in the Bari area: other olive trees have been identified infected between Polignano and Castellana BariTodayXylella has arrived in Castellana Grotte Olivo e OlioXylella, recognized as a calamity, among the Ionian municipalities also Manduria, Avetrana Sava, Maruggio, Torricella and others La Voce di ManduriaXylella is advancing in the Bari area, sen. Damiani (FI): Â«Immediately the question on the national tablesÂ» AndriaViva
Xylella: in Polignano a Mare and Martina Franca the highest number of new Coldiretti Puglia infections: monitoring, 42 other trees infected
Below is a statement released by Coldiretti Puglia: The killer bacterium âeatsâ another 42 olive trees bringing the plants infected with Xylella fastidiosa to 214, while the worrying advance continues, it is not ... Also in Castellana Grotte an olive tree affected by Xylella fastidiosa
Monitoring in the Bari area is too slow, considering the spread of the killer bacterium of olive trees. Xylella is now widespread in five municipalities in the province of Bari ...
Xylella Polignano
Follow the updates and see the latest videos on:
Xylella Polignano 
