Multilocus sequence typing of phytoplasmas associated with Flavescence dorée disease in Tuscany vineyards identifies a highly homogeneous lineage in the subgroup 16SrV–C
Flavescence dorée (FD) is the most threatening grapevine yellows (GY) disease in Europe. Despite strict control measures, alarming signs of the spread… Crop Protection Multilocus sequence typing of phytoplasmas associated with Flavescence dorée disease in Tuscany vineyards identifies a highly homogeneous lineage in the subgroup 16SrV–C Introduction Grapevine Yellows (GY) is a complex array of diseases in cultivated grapevines associated with phytoplasma infections. Characterized by symptoms including discoloration and downward curling of leaves, necrosis of leaf veins, uneven lignification of stems, abortion of inflorescences, and shriveling of grape clusters, GY has a profound negative economic impact on viticulture industry worldwide. GY diseases in different geographic regions are often attributed to infections by mutually distinct phytoplasmas affiliated with different ‘Candidatus Phytoplasma’ species. In Europe, Flavescence dorée (FD) is the most threatening GY disease as severe FD outbreaks have occurred in major viticultural areas of the continent (EPPO 2017), affecting both vineyard productivity and landscape management (Rossi et al., 2019). FD symptoms are essentially indistinguishable from those of the other GY diseases. Typical FD symptoms consist of leaf yellowing (white berry varieties) or reddening (red berry varieties), desiccation of inflorescences, irregular ripening and shriveling of berries, and general decline. Plant death may occur in late infection stages (Belli et al., 2010). The etiological agent of the FD disease is an incidentally cited phytoplasma species termed ‘Candidatus Phytoplasma vitis’. Being capable of infecting most grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) cultivars and their interspecific hybrids, the FD phytoplasma (FDp) is transmitted from vine to vine mainly through phloem-feeding activities of the monophagous leafhopper Scaphoideus titanus Ball (Schvester et al., 1967; Mori et al., 2002). Previous studies on epidemiology of the FD disease revealed that some additional insects and plants may also play roles as potential FDp vectors and reservoirs, respectively (Maixner et al., 2000; Weintraub and Beanland, 2006; Filippin et al., 2009; Casati et al., 2017; Lessio et al., 2019), indicating the complexity of the FD pathosystem in the agro-ecosystem. Due to its epidemic potential, FDp is listed as a quarantine pathogen in the European Union. Based on the phytoplasma classification scheme derived from RFLP analysis of the 16S rRNA gene (Lee et al., 1998), strains of known FDp were assigned into two subgroups of the elm yellows (EY) group, 16SrV–C (FD-C) and 16SrV-D (FD-D) (Lee et al., 2000; Davis and Dally, 2001). FDp strains belonging to the FD-D subgroup have been reported in Italy, France, Spain, and Switzerland (Arnaud et al., 2007), while strains associated with FD-C subgroup have been identified in Italy, France, Slovenia, and Serbia (Martini et al., 2002; Maixner 2006; Kuzmanović et al., 2008; Filippin et al., 2009; Rossi et al., 2019). Considering significant genetic variability of phytoplasma strains within each 16Sr subgroup lineage, molecular characterization of phytoplasma strains is often carried out through multi-locus sequence typing (MLST) approach. Analyses of genes more variable than highly conserved 16S rRNA have provided additional informative molecular markers regarding the genotypes of diverse phytoplasma strains (Lee et al., 2010). Phylogenetic analyses of genes, such as secY (encoding the central subunit of a protein translocase channel), uvrB-degV (encoding a subunit of the exonuclease ABC) and map (encoding a methionine amino peptidase), allowed the identification of three consistent FDp phylogenetic clusters; each cluster differed in nucleotide sequence composition and geographic distribution (Arnaud et al., 2007; Malembic-Maher et al., 2020). While cluster FD1 strains were found exclusively in France and Italy, cluster FD3 strains were identified only in Italy and Serbia. Strains of cluster FD2 were present both in France and Italy, but more prevalent in the former (Arnaud et al., 2007; Plavec et al., 2019; Malembic-Maher et al., 2020). Additionally, an earlier study indicated that rp genes (encoding ribosomal proteins) were useful in differentiating closely related FDp strains as well, as a phylogenetic analysis of rp gene sequences separated FDp strains reported in Italy and France into three distinct clusters (Angelini et al., 2003). Recently, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis has also been used to differentiate closely related FDp strains identified in various potential vector and reservoir plant species, gaining insights into ecological properties of FD epidemiological cycles in vineyards (Krstić et al., 2022). The presence of FDp in the traditional viticulture areas of Tuscany, central Italy, was first reported nearly two decades ago (Bertaccini et al., 2003). In the ensuing years up to the 2015 survey, FDp was detected consistently in northwestern provinces and sporadically in southern provinces of Tuscany (Rizzo et al., 2018). Since in most GY surveys, FDp identification was achieved using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR)-based diagnostic assay (Angelini et al., 2007), gene sequence information required for FDp strain typing was hardly available. Consequently, only very few FDp strains from Tuscany were characterized molecularly, mainly resulting as cluster FD1 strains (Arnaud et al., 2007; Malembic-Maher et al., 2011, 2020). In 2017, a GY field survey was carried out in Tuscany's traditional viticulture areas. The main purpose of the survey was to i) assess the extent of FD disease in the region, especially in some provinces where FD phytoplasma was not detected in the 2015 survey, and ii) to determine the population and molecular features of the FDp strains present in Tuscany as such data was lacking from previous studies. Symptomatic grapevines were examined using qPCR assay for the detection of FD and Bois Noir (BN) phytoplasmas and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of grapevine leafroll viruses (GLRV). Among 500 samples screened, 85 were positive for FDp (17%), 147 were positive for BNp (29.4%), and 127 were positive for GLRV (unpublished data). Fifteen FDp-positive samples collected from six vineyards were used for FDp strain typing in the present study. These FDp-positive samples had no co-infection with BNp or GLRV. The 15 FDp strains were characterized using molecular markers present in the 16S rRNA, rp and secY genes. The study unveiled that the Tuscan FDp (designated as TusFDp) strains form a highly homogeneous lineage within subgroup FD-C. Strains of this lineage possess consistent single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers in 16S rRNA, rp, and secY genes. The SNP markers not only provide a clue to understanding the genetic relationship among different FDp lineages but also to investigating whether the phytoplasma lineage is present in phloem-feeding insects (potential vectors) and other host plants (reservoirs) within and around the vineyards in the Tuscan region. Section snippets Plant sampling and DNA extraction Leaf samples exhibiting typical GY symptoms were collected from 50 Vitis vinifera cv. Sangiovese vineyards located in seven provinces of Tuscany, central Italy in September 2017. All grapevines in the surveyed vineyards had been trained as cordon and managed according to organic production standards. All sampled grapevines were positioned in the central parts of the surveyed vineyards. Midribs were dissected from fresh leaf samples and stored at −20 C until DNA extraction. Total DNA was Distribution of FD phytoplasma has extended to central and southwestern parts of Tuscany In September of 2017, a GY field survey was carried out in the traditional viticulture areas of Tuscany, central Italy. In the survey, a total of 500 GY symptomatic grapevines (Vitis vinifera cv. Sangiovese) were sampled. An initial screening with qPCR revealed that, of the symptomatic samples, 85 were qPCR positive for FDp. The most noticeable symptoms exhibited by these FDp qPCR-positive vines were leaf reddening and berry shrivel, and the leaf reddening also involved veins (Fig. 1). The

