Interceptions of citrus from third countries with pests are increasing
The Unió de Llauradors denounces that the phytosanitary safety of imports from third countries cannot be guaranteed. The Unió de Llauradors denounces that the phytosanitary safety of imports from third countries cannot be guaranteed. The agrarian organization has reported in a statement that interceptions of citrus imports from third countries with pests have increased by up to 23% compared to last year. "The data is once again scandalous and highlights the latent risk of a lethal pest entering citrus fruits in the European Union," the Unió criticized in its statement. According to data collected by La Unió, the Mercosur countries (Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay) accounted for 60% of all interceptions in the first nine months of the year. Brazil goes from the 10 accumulated in 2021 for these dates to 63 this (+530%), Argentina from 5 to 8 ( +200%) and Uruguay four for none from last year. Also add Colombia, a member of Mercosur, with three interceptions this year compared to one last year. In the case of South Africa, the number of interceptions decreases. However, according to La Unió, despite suspending these shipments, "still has accumulated 16 interceptions so far this year, four of them in September, which once again shows that it is not meeting its commitments.” Of those 16 interceptions, 13 correspond to Phyllosticta citricarpa, a fungus that causes the feared Black Spot disease of citrus. In this sense, La Unió calls for an increase in the demands and the controls at source, since detections for this fungus are skyrocketing. Faced with this problem, the agrarian organization has requested the immediate suspension of imports from third countries that cannot guarantee the phytosanitary security of their shipments "because the same ones are always at the top of the list of interceptions". In the same way, the organization calls for the implementation of a unified refrigeration system for all imports and countries and that the community authorities have a single standardized criterion for all. At the same time, The Union believes that the European Union makes a serious mistake by signing agreements with Mercosur or South Africa. “There are no in-depth or rigorous impact studies on the effects they cause in our agricultural sector or on the consequences of the possible entry of a pest, something that we are already paying for with Xylella or with Cotonet from South Africa”, denounces the organization's statement. "Anything that involves agreements without reciprocity in production standards or in the use of active ingredients, without full phytosanitary guarantees in terms of pests, without acquiring the reduction commitments set forth in the European strategy 'From farm to farm'. table' and without ordering in terms of import periods so that they do not overlap with European productions that are not in deficit, is to make the same mistakes as always that always cause a huge negative impact on the European sector”, he points out Carles Perís, general secretary of La Unió de Llauradors. 
