Vine flavescence detection: The prospecting program continues
Since 2017, prospecting against flavescence dorée has been implemented throughout the Lot vineyards. This disease is a quarantine vine yellows disease that does a lot of damage and is carried by a vector, the leafhopper Scaphoidus titanus. The disease manifests itself in symptoms October 26, 2022 No Comments 68 Vine flavescence detection: The prospecting program continues Since 2017, prospecting against flavescence dorée has been implemented throughout the Lot vineyards. This disease is a quarantine vine yellows disease that does a lot of damage and is carried by a vector, the leafhopper Scaphoidus titanus. The disease is manifested by symptoms of discoloration of the foliage (reddening on red grape varieties, yellowing on white grape varieties), lack of twig hardening and drying of bunches. These symptoms are similar to another grapevine yellows, bois noir, causing damage, but not being a quarantine disease. The disease is transmitted by the sap, only a laboratory analysis can distinguish these jaundices. The FDGDON (Departmental Federation of Defense Groups against Harmful Organisms), represented by Christophe FRANCEN, manages the prospecting of a quarter of the Lot vineyard every year. Prospectors visit the plots on foot and by quad and note the symptomatic vines. An analysis makes it possible to identify the type of jaundice, golden flavescence or black wood. Contaminated vines are marked and uprooted in winter to prevent propagation the following year. The fight against vector leafhoppers is carried out by insecticide treatments imposed on dates set by the DRAAF (Regional Directorate for Food, Agriculture and Forestry) according to the stage of the leafhopper larvae. Prospecting will end in mid-October with 1000 to 1200 Ha visited. The historic homes are visited every year: Parnac, Pradines, Mercuès and Douelle. Other towns were also surveyed this year: Porte du Quercy, Sauzet, Luzech, Prayssac, Carnac, Sérignac, Saux, Montcuq, Glanes. The analyzes are in progress and the results will be established in the winter. 
