NA
The Food Safety Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan (hereinafter - the Agency) is responsible for regulatory regulation of food safety (preparation and approval of sanitary norms and rules, as well as hygiene regulations), risk analysis, state registration of food products and their packaging materials, export to foreign countries issuing a food safety certificate to food products, except for veterinary, plant protection and quarantine areas, in accordance with the level of risk carried by the product, production, supply, packaging, storage, transportation, circulation of food products (including import-export operations), public catering and state control of food safety and protection of the rights of consumers of food products at all stages of the food chain, including its use, disposal and destruction in service areas, as well as state control in the mentioned areas (hereinafter - in the relevant area) is the central executive authority that implements its policy and regulation. Express risk analysis of pine stem nematode was carried out Shared 25.10.2022 12:48 Express risk analysis of pine stem nematode (Bursaphelenchus xylophilus (Steiner & Bührer)) was carried out by the experts of Azerbaijan Food Safety Institute. According to the analysis results, the rules are strictly followed to prevent this pest, which can cause serious problems for coniferous plants, from entering the territory of the country. should be done. Thus, Pine stem nematode (Bursaphelenchus xylophilus) is also known as pine wood nematode (Pine wood nematode). This is a type of nematode that infects and even destroys coniferous trees of the Pinus genus. Pine stem nematode was first detected in pine trees in the United States of America (Florida). In addition to the USA and Canada, the pathogen has also been detected in Mexico. B. xylophilus is believed to have been transported from North America to Japan in packaged materials in the early 20th century. B. xylophilus was first discovered in China in 1982, in Taiwan in 1985, and in the Republic of Korea in 1988. In Europe, this nematode species was first found in Portugal in 1999 and was identified as having been imported from China via packaged wood material. B. mucronatus species of this nematode is widespread in the Far East and Siberian regions of Europe and the Russian Federation. There is no official information on the detection of nematodes in our republic. B.xylophilus is mainly distributed in pine trees (Pinus spp.). However, this pest also feeds on beech (Fagus sylvatica) and oak (Quercus robur) plants. B. xylophilus has the general characteristics of the genus Bursaphelenchus. So, nematodes are small or long thin. Females of the pine stem nematode have a large, protruding head with six lips. The length of the stylet of females is 12.6-13.0 microns. The length of the stylet of males is 12.6-13.8 microns, and the length of the spicule is 18.8-23.0 microns. The body length of adult nematodes is 0.52-1.22 µm. During infection of conifers with B. xylophilus, there is a sharp decrease in resin yield, yellowing and wilting of leaves, browning, and then drying of branches and plants. Nematodes are spread from one plant to another through Monochamus species. The spread of B. xylophilus mainly occurs during the importation of packaged wood materials with insect vectors that can carry and transmit the nematodes to conifers. Thus, adult Monochamus larvae can live in treated wood for several months and be transported over long distances. Sometimes it is found alive in various and unprocessed wooden materials. During the 1940s and 1950s, around 1 million m3 of trees were lost every year as a result of the spread of nematodes. However, as a result of the measures taken, this indicator has dropped below 500,000 m3. In 1980, 35 million dollars were spent on nematode control measures in the country. Between 1995 and 2006, B. xylophilus nematode destroyed 2.3 million trees in China. Also, between 1998 and 2017, as a result of B. xylophilus nematode infection, the average annual economic loss of China was more than 1 billion dollars. From the above, it can be concluded that high economic damage is observed in the countries where B. xylophilus nematode is spread. Since B. xylophilus is currently identified as the most damaging pest and pathogen in the world, the introduction of this nematode to our country may cause serious problems for coniferous plants. Therefore, in order to prevent the introduction of B. xylophilus into the country, wooden materials should be brought from areas that are not infected with this pest or from free zones, free production sites and free production areas. At the same time, wooden materials that meet the requirements of FTBS 15 should be used. If the pine stem nematode is detected in our country, the dead trees infected with the pest should be cut or burned. 
