Prevention of HLB: 18,000 citrus seedlings were eliminated in a nursery in Tucumán
They were cultivated in the open sky and did not comply with the current norm. It is one of the most important actions carried out by Senasa in the Province.
Prevention of HLB: 18,000 citrus seedlings were eliminated in a nursery in Tucumán They were cultivated in the open sky and did not comply with the current norm. It is one of the most important actions carried out by Senasa in the Province. San Miguel de Tucumán - Within the framework of its inspection activities to prevent Huanglongbing (HLB) , the National Service for Agrifood Health and Quality (Senasa) seized and eliminated 18,000 citrus seedlings detected in a nursery in Tucumán , which were cultivated opencast in violation of current regulations . Agents of the NOA Sur Regional Center of Senasa , after inspecting different citrus nurseries in the province of Tucumán, detected, in one of them, the cultivation of seedlings in the open air, which violates Resolution 930/2009 of the health agency, which makes it mandatory of the presence of this propagation material in greenhouses that are covered by anti-aphid mesh, double doors and disinfection measures, among other requirements to guarantee their health, mainly to prevent HLB and its vector insect , for which they ordered its elimination. These measures, implemented by Senasa's National Plant Propagation Material Sanitation Program, are intended to ensure that the plant material that is later planted on farms in the national territory complies with the sanitation that Senasa supervises daily. "In the task of supervising the nurseries, we guarantee the health of the plant material," explained the Plant Protection coordinator of the Senasa Noa Sur Regional Center, Gustavo Dadda . He also stressed that: “in this specific case, it is important to highlight that the producer who owns the citrus plants understood the problem and collaborated at all times with the tasks of confiscation and elimination, providing personnel to carry out the task with machetes and chainsaws. Later everything was incinerated. Senasa carries out this type of action in order to preserve the health of our country's crops and prevent the spread of pests and diseases such as, in this case, HLB.

