Integrated management of Spodoptera frugiperda 6 years post detection in Africa: a review
The introduction of fall armyworm (FAW) Spodoptera frugiperda (JE Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) on the African continent has led to paradigm shifts in pest control in maize systems, occasioned by year-round populations. The discovery of resident parasitoid species adapting to the new pest significantly informed decision-making toward avoiding highly hazardous synthetic insecticides to control the pest. A number of biopesticides have shown promise against the fall armyworm, providing a new arsenal for the sustainable management of this invasive pest. However, a few knowledge gaps remain for a fully integrated and sustainable FAW-management approach, particularly on host-resistance potential. Integrated management of Spodoptera frugiperda 6 years post detection in Africa: a review
Date
2022-08
Language
en
Type
Journal Article
Review status
Peer Review
ISI journal
Accessibility
Limited Access
Usage rights
Copyrighted; all rights reserved
Metadata
Show full item record
Citation
Tepa-Yotto, G., Chinwada, P., Rwomushana, I., Goergen, G. & Subramanian, S. (2022). Integrated management of Spodoptera frugiperda 6 years post-detection in Africa: a review. Current Opinion in Insect Science, 52, 100928, 1-7.
Permanent link to cite or share this item:https://hdl.handle.net/10568/120091
Abstract/Description
The introduction of fall armyworm (FAW) Spodoptera frugiperda (JE Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) on the African continent has led to paradigm shifts in pest control in maize systems, occasioned by year-round populations. The discovery of resident parasitoid species adapting to the new pest significantly informed decision-making toward avoiding highly hazardous synthetic insecticides to control the pest. A number of biopesticides have shown promise against the fall armyworm, providing a new arsenal for the sustainable management of this invasive pest. However, a few knowledge gaps remain for a fully integrated and sustainable FAW-management approach, particularly on host-resistance potential.
CGIAR Author ORCID iDs
Ghislain Tepa-Yottohttps://orcid.org/0000-0002-9650-8313
Georg Goergenhttps://orcid.org/0000-0003-4496-0495
Notes
Published online: 06 May 2022
CGIAR Impact Areas
Contributes to SDGs
AGROVOC Keywords
Subjects
AGRONOMY; DISEASE CONTROL; FOOD SECURITY; MAIZE; PESTS OF PLANTS; PLANT BREEDING; PLANT DISEASES; PLANT HEALTH; PLANT PRODUCTION
Regions
Africa; Western Africa
Organizations Affiliated to the Authors
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture; Université Nationale d′Agriculture, Benin; Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International; International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology
Investors/sponsors
World Bank
Collections
IITA Journal Articles [4735] 
