Psyllid control with orange essential oil
Orange peel essential oil is considered a great facilitator and guarantees numerous benefits for crops. Check out!
Isabella Rubio Cabral Undergraduate student in Biological Sciences – UNESP – Botucatu rubioisabella05@gmail.com Muriel Cicatti Emanoeli Soares Agronomist and PhD student in Plant Protection – UNESP – Botucatu Agriculture faces major challenges in obtaining and increasing productivity. Crop yields are closely related to agricultural production rates and, therefore, this growing demand generates the need to improve and incorporate technologies into production systems. In recent years, interest in the use of essential oils has increased because they have several desirable characteristics, such as efficiency in controlling various insect pests, low toxicity to non-target organisms and low persistence in the environment, being used directly as control agents. or as components in product formulations. Based on this, orange peel essential oil is considered a great facilitator and guarantees numerous benefits for crops, being compatible with Integrated Pest Management (IPM). Origin Orange essential oil is extracted from the peel of the fruit from the processing of orange juice by a cold process, that is, without the use of chemicals. Due to its high affinity with plant tissue, orange peel oil optimizes the application of agrochemicals, such as fungicides, herbicides and insecticides mixed with the spray solution, as it facilitates absorption and allows rapid translocation of the product to its action site. In addition, another positive point is that its use, unlike petroleum products, prevents possible damage to the waxy layer of plants. This layer is responsible for preventing the diffusion of water to the external environment and is extremely important for plants. The effectiveness of foliar applications using the oil is also directly related to its surfactant action, reducing the surface tension of the sprayed droplet. the psyllid Brazil is the largest producer and exporter of orange juice in the world and the attack of insect pests is highly harmful to the crop, and the citrus psyllid Diaphorina citri is one of the most important pests for the citrus industry worldwide. They are sap-sucking insects and the development of the citrus psyllid is hemimetabolic, passing through the egg stage, five nymphal and adult stages. Adults are usually found in shoots, preferred places for feeding. The life cycle of this insect undergoes changes as a function of temperature, relative humidity and host plant, varying between 15 and 40 days. Serving as a major source of dissemination is the garden myrtle Murraya paniculata , one of the main hosts of this psyllid. losses This insect is of great importance, as it transmits the bacterium Candidatus Liberibacter spp., which causes HBL (Huanglongbing, Greening), which causes defoliation, drought and death of branches. The symptoms of greening begin with the appearance of yellowed, mottled leaves. The fruits are usually deformed, small and acquire a greenish color, falling prematurely. When the trees are young, they do not bear fruit. In addition, during the feeding of the insect, a whitish sugary substance is released, favoring the incidence of fungi. Today, the citrus psyllid is present in the main citrus producing regions of the country and since 2004, the year in which the disease was reported in Brazil, more than 46 million infected plants have been eradicated, causing a reduction of 100 thousand hectares. of culture. Control Currently, the control of this insect is carried out through spraying with insecticides, usually without rotation of active ingredients, favoring the incidence of resistant populations and causing possible imbalances to the environment. Thus, investigations into alternative forms of control must be carried out to ensure successful management. Orange essential oil as a tool Essential oils from plants of the Citrus genus have been recognized for their insecticidal properties. Studies have demonstrated its efficiency in pest control, mainly due to the synergistic effects between its components. Its mode of action may be directly related to the terpenoid compounds present, such as d-limonene and linalool, although more studies are needed to elucidate these effects. The repellent activity on adults is the most observed, although its contact action, dissolving lipids from the exoskeleton cuticle, causing dehydration and insect death, has also been studied. There are also reports of action on the nervous system, in the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, causing hyperexcitability, convulsion, paralysis and death. The most recent investigations confirm that plant essential oils may not only have the ability to repel insects, preventing them from approaching plants, but also to have a direct toxicity action or act as an anti-feeding agent, preventing insects from starting to feed and causing his death from starvation. In some cases, they can hinder the growth and development of organisms, interfering with cellular metabolism and acting in the deterrence of oviposition, in the reduction of the viability of eggs, nymphs, larvae and pupae, in the fecundity and fertility of the insect. Action Among the various substances with direct effects on insects, there are those that act by contact (act and are absorbed by the chitin and exoskeleton), by fumigant action (act on the respiratory tract) or by ingestion (penetrate the body orally), being the latter a more specific form of action, restricted to herbivores, presenting, therefore, little toxicity to humans. More recent observations demonstrate an adjuvant potential of the market formulations based on orange essential oil, which promote better spreading of the spray solution, better adhesion and penetration of the actives and help in the reducing effect of the drift. Thus, the use of such formulations has been growing considerably in mixtures with conventional chemical insecticides and even with fungicides, in order to enhance the action of these products and ensure efficient control of citrus psyllid. possible challenges Despite the numerous advantages presented by the use of essential oils, such as rapid action and degradation, low to moderate toxicity for mammals, ease of obtaining the actives, greater selectivity and low phytotoxicity, these insecticides may have some disadvantages, such as the need to use some synergistic compound, low persistence in soil and plants, need for chemical standardization and quality control of the assets. In addition, there is a lack of field research, difficulty and cost for registration. The repellent properties are the most studied among essential oils as a valuable natural resource. However, due to its volatility, the hedging effect dissipates relatively quickly. Therefore, the development of formulations capable of keeping the active ingredients on target for a longer time will certainly expand the use of these oils as repellents in the most diverse cultures. In this way, if on the one hand the rapid degradation of the active can be an advantage, as it brings low residual and allows the application of these products close to harvest periods, on the other hand, the rapid degradation makes it necessary to have a greater number of sprays. during the cycle of a crop, which can increase management costs. Furthermore, there is a misconception that botanical insecticides are always less toxic or safer than synthetic insecticides, and this is not always the case. Many substances that are toxic to insects can also have similar effects on humans. Therefore, the lack of data related to phytotoxicity, persistence, effects on beneficial organisms and difficulties related to the isolation of active ingredients, as well as the concentration in different plant parts, are also some barriers to be broken and further studies in this area. are necessary. Although there is information about a significant number of plants with insecticidal activity, there is still a great challenge with regard to the development of products on a larger scale, which can be made commercially available. The use of techniques such as nanotechnology, encapsulation of actives and the use of polymers can be viable alternatives for this success. It all starts with monitoring To ensure the efficiency of the application of orange oil-based products, as well as any management tactic, it is necessary for the producer to ensure that the pest monitoring in the crop is carried out correctly. It is worth remembering that this insect pest is considered a vector insect. Therefore, the presence of a psyllid already indicates the need for control. Monitoring can be carried out through the use of yellow sticky traps and visual inspection, in the following ways: – The citrus psyllid is present in the area throughout the year; however, monitoring should be intensified during the spring and summer seasons, due to the insect's population peak; – It is necessary that the yellow traps are correctly arranged throughout the plot, in order to facilitate their visualization by the insects. It is recommended to install the traps every 100 – 250 meters at the edge of the plots; – Constant inspections are necessary, so as not to let the period between assessments be long, since infected trees can be seriously compromised in a short time; – In visual monitoring, the inspection must occur weekly in 1% of the plants in the plots, with the observation of three to five new branches per plant and must be carried out in a spiral, always starting at the edges of the plot and ending in the center. recommendations In addition to frequent inspections, the elimination of diseased plants is necessary. It is recommended the acquisition of healthy seedlings and elimination of host plants. It is worth mentioning that the knowledge of the spatial distribution of the psyllid in the orchard is extremely important for the establishment of sampling criteria and decision-making aimed at controlling this insect pest.

