The ToBRFV infection has spread to several farms, and they are fighting against the pathogen
According to the data of the Dutch NVWA, ToBRFV, which causes tomato brown shriveling, was present in 41 Dutch tomato farms.
According to the records of the Dutch Food and Consumer Protection Authority (NVWA), on June 1, 2022, ToBRFV – Tomato brown rugose fruit virus, which causes brown wrinkling of tomatoes, was present in 41 Dutch tomato farms. Farms infected with tobamovirus are under the control of the organization to avoid further spread. In the Netherlands, starting from mid-2019, the virus was detected in 57 growers, which was removed from 12 places, but the infection reappeared in 2 of these farms. By June 1, 6 farms stopped growing tomatoes and switched to other crops. According to the NÉBIH, the first officially confirmed detection of ToBRFV, which belongs to the group of tobamoviruses, took place in Israel in 2014, and was then identified in Jordan in 2015. In Europe, it was found for the first time in Sicily, Italy and Germany in 2018. It reappeared in Sicily at the beginning of 2019. The infection in Germany was eradicated by the authorities. The European cases were isolated infections , they wrote in their statement. ToBRFV was added to the danger list in 2019, and is also subject to notification here FruitVeB reported in more detail that ToBRFV - Tomato brown rugose fruit virus was added to the alert list of the European and Mediterranean Plant Protection Organization (EPPO) at the beginning of 2019, where non-quarantine organisms, but potentially dangerous pests are listed . In case of suspicion of this pest, as a non-native pest that has not occurred in Hungary, it must be reported to the county Government Office. The appearance and variations of the symptoms are influenced by the variety, the light, the temperature and the supply of nutrients to the plant. The virus causes the most severe symptoms on young seedlings. The virus poses a serious threat to plants The virus can spread with seedlings and seeds, but its main danger lies in the fact that it can remain infectious on mechanical devices, shoes, clothes, and the roll used to transport tomatoes. So it can be easily transferred between drive houses. You can even reach greater distances with tomatoes from an infected area. An additional risk of the virus is that the Tm-22 resistance gene developed for other tobamoviruses (TMV, ToMV) does not provide protection against it, so it can cause infection in resistant varieties as well, the statement said. Articles reviewed for the article: NL: 41 Tomatenbetriebe waren Anfang June mit dem ToBRFV-Virus befallen The tomato-damaging ToBRFV virus may pose a new threat in Europe Tomato brown rugose fruit virus (TOBRFV) As of November 1, 2019, the Jordan virus (ToBRFV) is considered a quarantine pest

